Well, brothers,
the next item on our agenda
is what we’ve been working on
for the past three months.
And, Kevin,
since this is your first elders’ meeting with us,
maybe we can fill you in on the background.
Thanks, that would be great.
We noted that some
in the congregation were anxious
because of unstable world conditions,
and we decided to focus
on strengthening the friends when shepherding
so that they’d be able to face
future events with courage.
And we also wanted to commend them
where they’re already showing courage
and to help them to see
that the courage they develop now
will help them to display courage in the future.
Luther, how did things go in your group?
Maybe you can share an experience
that gives an idea of the overall results.
Sure.
I think the experience
that best illustrates it is Mark O’Brien’s.
He was facing some serious pressure at work
to compromise his neutrality.
Look, Mark, I understand
you don’t like to get involved in politics.
I don’t either.
But if we don’t protest this new bill,
our company is going to get hit
with cutbacks and layoffs.
Joel, don’t get me wrong.
I’m concerned too,
but I won’t join the protest.
OK.
So you won’t stand in line and protest,
but at least sign the sheet
to show you support the protest.
It’s not like you’re voting
or joining a political party.
Your name won’t even be noticed.
We just need signatures.
So far, everyone in the company has signed it.
Mark, I’m going to be straight with you.
The boss told me
he’s going to have to let some people go,
and your name is under serious consideration
depending on the outcome of this discussion.
Just sign the paper, Mark!
Did he sign the paper?
No.
And do you know why?
At that moment,
he said a silent prayer
that gave him the courage
needed to remain neutral.
I commended him, and I reminded him
that displaying courage now
is going to help him in the future.
Thanks, Luther.
That’s very encouraging to hear.
Matthew, how did things go with your group?
Very good.
In fact, Sally’s experience
is one that stands out for me.
Hi.
Would you like to make
a donation to the marathon?
Um, no thank you.
Oh.
Shall I put it in the bag,
or do you want to wear it now?
Oh, no thank you.
What’s wrong, Honey?
You got something against them?
Well, no I—
I don’t have anything against them personally.
So, what’s the problem?
I respect that they
have a right to choose their lifestyle,
but as a Bible reader, I choose—
Excuse me!
I’m a Bible reader too!
I go to church,
and our church is one
of the biggest supporters of this marathon!
So, what are you trying to say?
Displaying courage now
will help me display courage in the future.
Well, I’m one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
and we believe the Bible
teaches that sex is for a man
and a woman who are married.
Intolerant people.
Wow, that sure took courage.
That’s what I told her.
And I asked her
to think about when the political powers
destroy false religion.
At that time,
people won’t want to admit that they’re religious.
And so for us
to admit that we’re Jehovah’s Witnesses then,
well, that’s going to require
the same type of courage
that she displayed at that market.
Wow, I remember
when Sally was just a little girl handing out tracts,
and now look how well she’s done.
Speaking of tracts,
may I share an experience with you brothers?
Sure.
Do you recall a little over ten years ago?
We had the Kingdom News campaign
“The End of False Religion Is Near!”
During our shepherding visit with Sherry Spencer,
she admitted that something
happened to her during that campaign.
As a public service,
I’m sharing in an earth-wide distribution
of this important message.
That’s your free copy.
Hey!
What’s this about?
Are you trying to tell me
that my religion is false and yours is true?
Get off my property!
If you come back again,
I’m going to set my dog on you!
Nobody wants you here!
Sister Spencer said that
that experience stayed with her.
To this day,
she finds it very difficult to be in the ministry.
Brothers,
I feel that after all these years,
if I can’t get over this fear,
I may not make it when times get harder.
Sister Spencer,
you may be surprised to know
that most of us
get nervous when talking at the doors.
I know that I do.
You’re just trying to make me feel better.
No.
I’m saying it because it’s true.
Being courageous
doesn’t mean we won’t get nervous.
Sometimes being courageous means
taking action even though we are nervous.
Thanks.
That is encouraging.
Here’s a suggestion that may help.
We’ve discussed Psalm 27:14.
Based on that scripture,
the next time you’re about to face
a situation that calls for courage,
whether it be in the ministry or otherwise,
tell yourself
you just need to do these three things:
pray,
hope in Jehovah,
and act.
You got it?
Pray,
hope in Jehovah,
and act.
Wait.
I’m going to write that down.
Excellent!
Helping the friends address their fears
is really going to help
when our message changes
from good news to judgment.
So, Peter, let’s hear from you next.
Well, when we informed everyone
that the publishers were going to be redistributed
to the North or South Congregation,
let’s just say some struggled with the idea.
Paula!
Did you see?
They have us going to the South Congregation,
and everybody else
from our group is going to North.
Yeah, I saw that.
My aunt and cousins will be going there too.
Well, that doesn’t make any sense.
They should keep you together.
Well, at least the brothers said
that the list was just a recommendation.
Well, they didn’t say it exactly like that.
They said,
“if we had extenuating circumstances.”
So you don’t have to go if you don’t want to go.
But, Kim,
if everyone did that, don’t you think—
Oh, hi, Sister Taylor.
Oh, hello, girls.
I saw your name
on the list for the South Congregation,
but your grandkids and their families
—they’re going to North.
So, what are you going to do?
What do you mean?
Well, are you going to North,
or are you going to South?
Now, Sweetie, didn’t you say you saw
my name listed under the South Congregation?
Yeah, but . . .
So I’ll be going to the South Congregation.
Well, don’t you think it would make more sense
if you were in the same congregation
as your grandkids and their families?
Does it make more sense?
Well, that’s a whole different question.
The brothers outlined an arrangement.
They said they hoped
we could support that arrangement
unless we had extenuating circumstances,
and I don’t have any right now.
So for me, it’s simple.
Whether I know all of the reasons or not,
I’m going to support that arrangement.
Oh, look, girls, I’ve got to go.
Oh, and by the way,
I hope to see you both
in the South Congregation.
Peter, you got a sec?
I think this experience well illustrates
one way to show courage now,
and that’s by following
the direction of the brothers taking the lead
—even if we don’t fully understand
the reasons why this direction is being given.
Exactly.
We’ve been told
that when Gog of Magog
attacks Jehovah’s people,
we may receive direction
that may not seem practical.
So, courageously following directions now
will help us to do so then.
So, brothers, we’re almost done.
And if you don’t mind,
I’d like to share what happened with my group.
The Monroes asked if I would join them
on one of their Family Worship evenings.
So let’s ask our final review question:
“How can we prepare ourselves
for the events that are to come?”
Sarah.
We want to develop heartfelt obedience
to the guidance that we receive now,
so that we’ll obey
any future instructions Jehovah may give us.
So, doing this will help us survive Armageddon.
Well said.
Very nice, Dear.
May I ask Brad a question?
Sure, go ahead.
Brad, I noticed
you’ve really been focused on that picture.
Do you mind if I ask what you’re thinking about?
Well, will the brothers tell us
how to fight the people who will be attacking us?
We won’t need to do any fighting.
Then what will we need the instructions for?
Are we just going to stand there and do nothing?
We don’t know
what those instructions will be, Son.
Brad, when Armageddon comes,
we’ll have nothing to worry about
and we won’t have to fight.
We know that because of what Jehovah
has done for his people in the past.
I’d like to show you an account
in 2 Chronicles chapter 20.
It was a time when Moabites and Ammonites
started to war against the land of Judah,
which was being ruled by King Jehoshaphat.
Some of those Israelites
were likely anxious, just like you.
Jehoshaphat gathered Judah at the temple
and began to inquire of Jehovah.
And Jehovah caused
a Levite named Jahaziel to give an answer
that gave everyone courage.
What did he say?
“Do not be afraid
“or be terrified because of this large crowd,
“for the battle is not yours
“but God’s. . . .
“You will not need to fight this battle.
“Take your position, stand still,
and see the salvation of Jehovah in your behalf.”
Jehovah had turned
the enemies against each other.
By the time the Israelites arrived,
not one soldier was left.
It was obvious
that Brad’s courage was strengthened
after reviewing this Bible account.
And I’m happy to say that after our discussions,
the friends in our group are more aware
of how their own acts of courage now
will help them be courageous in the future.
Enough from me.
It’s your turn, Albert.
How did things go with your group?
All responded nicely,
but there was one discussion
about courage that I didn’t anticipate.
Remember when Philip got accepted
to work with LDC as a construction volunteer?
Yeah.
Well, getting accepted to LDC
wasn’t quite what he expected.
Wow, Philip! This is great!
Yeah, that’s what everybody keeps saying.
It’s just overwhelming.
I thought I was more cut out for Bethel.
But construction volunteer
—I don’t even know what that is.
Who knows where they’ll send me?
And what if I get asked to do stuff
I’ve never done before?
Philip, your concerns are understandable.
I just don’t think I can handle all of this.
I don’t think you can either.
Wow, I’m glad someone finally agrees with me.
I say I don’t think you can handle this assignment
because it requires more than you to get it done.
I know what you’re saying.
Of course, Jehovah will help me.
But do you really believe that?
I do, but . . .
But what?
I guess what I’m saying is I’m afraid.
That’s OK.
When I first arrived
in this congregation as my SKE assignment,
I was afraid.
But, you know, one verse
that really helped me is 1 Chronicles 28:20.
These are David’s words to his son Solomon,
whom Jehovah assigned to build the temple.
“Then David said to his son Solomon:
“‘Be courageous and strong and go to work.
“‘Do not be afraid or be terrified,
“‘for Jehovah God, my God, is with you.
“‘He will not desert you or abandon you,
“‘but he will be with you
until all the work for the service
of Jehovah’s house is finished.’”
This verse reminded me
not to overthink all that needs to be done.
Just get started.
With Jehovah’s help, you can “be courageous”
—“go to work”!
There’s Philip, happy as can be.
He’s really doing well.
Thanks, Albert, for sharing that with us.
Well, brothers,
it’s clear that Jehovah has blessed
the hard work of the body of elders.
Now there’s something I wanted to say
before we conclude our meeting.
And that’s—that’s, ah . . .
We know, David; we know.
We’re feeling it too.
Yeah, but I just have to say it.
I’ve really appreciated serving with you brothers.
When I saw that our congregation
was going to be merged,
it wasn’t easy for me.
Well, we sure couldn’t tell.
I’m glad.
But it really hit me hard
the night we posted the list
recommending where the publishers should go.
It seems like it would have made more sense
for me to be assigned to the North Congregation,
where the majority of my friends will be going.
I’ve known those friends
longer than any of the other brothers.
And now they’re sending
that younger elder over to North
to be the coordinator of their body of elders.
I just don’t get it.
Why am I having such a hard time with this?
Of course,
I’m going to go to the South Congregation.
There’s no reason not to.
But the problem is my attitude.
I’ve told others for years that there are times
when we have to put aside
our personal preferences
to show our wholehearted support
of Jehovah’s sovereignty.
This is one of those times.
I need to be courageous
and stand up to selfishness
and independent thinking,
even if it’s my own.
I was reminded.
It’s simple.
When Jehovah’s organization
outlines an arrangement,
we support it,
not just because we’re supposed to;
we do it with the right attitude.
Amen to that.
That’s a lesson we’re all learning.
But I’m glad
we’ve been able to shepherd the congregation
before the changes take place.
Now our brothers and sisters are better equipped
to face the challenges ahead with courage.
It’s been a real pleasure to serve with you all.
Peter, would you please conclude
our meeting with prayer?
Sure.
Our Father, Jehovah . . .